
# Building Armbian for SBCs
*Edited Mar 2026*

Armbian is an open souce debian-based linux distro designed for ARM and RISC-V SBCs with good community support and documentation. If you've purchased a Raspberry Pi alternative such as and Orange Pi or Radxa board I recommend Armbian for the support and documentation.

## Prebuilt Images vs. DIY Building

Armbian offers hundreds of prebuilt images on the [Armbian download page](https://www.armbian.com/download/) and even provides an imaging tool similar to Raspberry Pi imager at https://imager.armbian.com.

In most cases you can find a build that fits your needs here but in other cases you will need to build your own image. In my case I want a headless build featuring standard cli tools for the Radxa Zero 2 so I will be building my own image.

## Building Armbian
Official Armbian Documentation: https://docs.armbian.com/Developer-Guide_Overview/

**1. Install Prerequisites**
Install coreutils
```bash
# MacOS
brew install coreutils

# Debian / Ubuntu
apt update
apt install coreutils
```

If you are not using Ubuntu you will also need Docker.
MacOS & Windows: https://docker.com
Debian: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/

**2. Clone Armbian Build Repository**
Armbian Build Repository: https://github.com/armbian/build
```bash
git clone https://github.com/armbian/build.git
```

**3. Generate Targets & Config Files**
This command generates several configuration files as well as a CSV listing all supported build targets.
```bash
cd build
./compile.sh inventory-boards
```
*Note: inventory-boards will take a while to run*

**4. Modify Build Configuration**
Identify your board's build target identifier in `./output/info/boards-inventory.csv` generated by the previous command. I find grep helpful for this.
```bash
grep radxa output/info/boards-inventory.csv
```
Then, modify `./userpatches/config-example.conf` to specify your board target and desired Debian version.
```bash
nano userpatches/config-example.conf
```
Armbian config documentation: https://docs.armbian.com/Developer-Guide_Build-Switches/
```
BOARD=radxa-zero2    # Build for the Radxa Zero 2
BRANCH=current
RELEASE=trixie       # Use Debian 13 Trixie
KERNEL_CONFIGURE=no
INSTALL_HEADERS=yes
SHARE_LOGS=no        # Optional log sharing
BUILD_DESKTOP=no
BUILD_MINIMAL=no
```

**5. Modify First Boot Configuration**
This configuration is read during the device fist boot to connect to your WiFi and provision user accounts.

Create `firstboot.conf` file & paste template from Armbian autoconfig documentation: https://docs.armbian.com/User-Guide_Autoconfig/
```bash
nano userpatches/firstboot.conf
```
```
#/root/.not_logged_in_yet
# Network Settings
PRESET_NET_CHANGE_DEFAULTS="1"
## Ethernet
PRESET_NET_ETHERNET_ENABLED="1"     #   Ignored due to WiFi
## WiFi
PRESET_NET_WIFI_ENABLED="1"
PRESET_NET_WIFI_SSID="MyWifi"
PRESET_NET_WIFI_KEY="WifiPassword"
PRESET_NET_WIFI_COUNTRYCODE="US"
PRESET_CONNECT_WIRELESS="y"

# System
SET_LANG_BASED_ON_LOCATION="y"
PRESET_LOCALE="en_US.UTF-8"
PRESET_TIMEZONE="Etc/UTC"

# Root
PRESET_ROOT_PASSWORD="root-password"
PRESET_ROOT_KEY=""

# User
PRESET_USER_NAME="andrew"
PRESET_USER_PASSWORD="password"
PRESET_USER_KEY="https://github.com/azroberts8.keys"  # Pulls SSH keys from your GitHub
PRESET_DEFAULT_REALNAME="Andrew Roberts"
PRESET_USER_SHELL="bash"
```

**6. Compile the Image**
```bash
./compile.sh example
```
*Note: This will take a long time - you are building the linux kernel*

Your compiled image will be saved in `./output/images`

## Flashing Armbian

**1. Connect Device or Flash Memory**
Connect your board or SD card to your machine and identify its location
```bash
# MacOS - should resemble /dev/disk<n>
diskutil list

# Linux - should resemble mmcblk<n>
lsblk
```
Make sure to identify the correct device before the next step!

**2. Flash Image to Device**
```bash
sudo dd bs=1M status=progress \
if=./output/images/<your-image>.img \
of=/dev/<your-device>
```

## First Boot Setup

**1. Boot Your Board**
Insert your flashed SD card into your board and connect it to power. For you initial boot it may take a couple minutes before it boots and authenticates with your WiFi network.

**2. Identify Device on Network**
Typically your device hostname should be the same as the build target (in my case `radxa-zero2`). If you are having trouble finding it use arp to list the devices on your LAN
```bash
arp -a
```

**3. SSH to Board Root**
Despite setting a user account and root password in the first-boot configuration, you will need to first SSH to root using the password `1234`
```bash
ssh root@radxa-zero2
```
After your connect it will automatically configure the user account and root passwords that you set. Every subsequent sign-on use the root password or user account that you set in the configuration file.
